Hi everyone. I'm Titus Barik, a researcher in the PROSE team.
In this demo, we'll look at how PROSE technology can enhance productivity
and offer users intelligent tool experiences through the use of programming by example.
Along the way, we'll highlight these capabilities in PROSE through five examples,
across diverse application domains,
including data preparation,
code transformations in an IDE,
interacting with chatbots,
clustering in order to filter in spreadsheets,
and extracting tabular data from intricate data sources.
Let's start with data preparation, a task commonly performed by data scientists to organize and analyze data.
Consider a dataset that we've just imported, in which, instead of the raw temperature, we want to bracket temperatures between certain intervals.
For example, we want to express the intent that the value 0.293 is within the interval between 0.290 and 0.295.
Rather than writing a complex script, we use the derive column by example capability of PROSE and provide it a simple example.
From this example, PROSE has learned the user's intent, and automatically completes the remaining rows.
This may remind you of the FlashFill feature in Excel,
but since that time, we've made several significant improvements,
and added powerful new derivations that add superpowers to this capability.
Cool. Let's now look at how PROSE can help us accelerate our coding experiences in the IDE.
In this example, the developer has inserted a SQL query that uses different conventions for naming a column, or aliasing, than the one they prefer.
For example, consider the alias ExpectedShipDate.
Here, the column aliasing is performed using equals, but the developer wants to use "as" instead.
Fortunately, the developer has installed the PROSE extension in their IDE and can leverage SQL transformation tools.
The developer needs to give only a single example of the SQL transformation that they want to perform, and then let PROSE take care of the rest.
We're all set.
PROSE interprets the developer's intentions, and correctly transforms all of the column aliases from "equals" to "as".
In addition, PROSE has inferred that the developer wants to remove brackets from column references, when it's possible to do so.
Chatbots are emerging as an experience for users to interact with their systems.
How can PROSE help with this?
In this example, the developer wants to avoid writing code to transform a string.
Instead, they want to give an example to a chatbot.
The developer specifies their name in the form of first name and last name as input, with the output format of last name, comma, first initial.
Sure enough, the chatbot uses PROSE to generate lots of different programs and figures out which program would best fit the example.
Here we've emitted pseudocode,
but we could have just as easily emitted Python or Java.
Of course, PROSE isn't just for professional scientists and engineers,
so let's look at how PROSE can help everyday users, for example, with spreadsheets.
In this example, a user has just obtained some data about people and their lifespans.
They reasonably attempt to use the existing filter capability to understand what type of data is in this column.
Unfortunately, although they can see that not all data is in the same format, it's difficult to get a sense of how that data varies.
Let's extend this capability with PROSE by giving the column as an example to column clustering and augmenting the filter feature in Excel.
Wow! Instead of simply listing all of the distinct values,
the filter capability now clearly shows the user that there are three clusters of date formats within this column.
To drill into the data, the user then chooses to filter on the first cluster, which specifies the year of birth and death.
Great job, PROSE! Looks like it worked.
PROSE isn't just limited to text.
It can take as examples a variety of input formats, including image data and PDFs.
Let's look at how, through a table extraction problem.
In this example, the user has a PDF document containing a table within it.
But it's rendered as an image, ugh!
Fortunately, PROSE supports a variety of sophisticated algorithms, including OCR, to process these types of files seamlessly.
In this case, the user simply performs a drag-and-drop operation to capture the bounds of the table.
Without asking the user for additional examples, PROSE uses a technology called predictive synthesis to extract the table.
Super useful.
In short, by adopting PROSE, developers can quickly surface intelligent capabilities into their own products, across a variety of application domains.
Thanks for watching.